Pölsterl, Navab, N., & Katouzian, A. (n.d.). Fast Training of Support Vector Machines for Survival Analysis. In Machine Learning and Knowledge Discovery in Databases (pp. 243–259). Springer International Publishing. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-23525-7_15


In Fast Training of Support Vector Machines for Survival Analysis the author explains that they wish to look at 3 different methods of training a support vector machine for survival analysis: ranking, regression, and a combination of ranking and regressions to determine how well they predict survivability. The author also introduces the concept of censored data. This is a term i hadn't heard of before but makes sense when explained and in the context of survivability prediction. As explained by the author, data is uncensored if a significant event occurs during the time period in which the study or model is used for.  Meanwhile censored data is data in which the event did not occur during the study or observation period, however it may have occurred after the study completes. When thinking about patient survivability this makes sense. For example if we want to study whether or not a patient dies during a hospital stay we probably only want to predict that for a fixed time period (the hospital stay) as we all know every patient will eventually die...perhaps even in a (different) hospital stay! 

The author then goes on to show how ranking methods such as Cox proportional Hazards and others fair when given certain sized data sets and then comparing that with regression based model. The author summarizes at the end that using ordered statistic trees (which their algorithm uses) is a sufficiently accurate and fast model for predicting patient survivability.
